src/UserGuide/Master/Table/SQL-Manual/Where-Clause.md, before:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
    
        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    
    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

# WHERE Clauses

## 1 Syntax Overview

```sql
WHERE booleanExpression
```

__WHERE clause __: Used to specify filtering conditions in SQL queries, the WHERE clause is executed immediately after the FROM clause.

## 2 Example Data


In the [Example Data page](../Basic-Concept/Sample-Data.md), there are SQL statements for building the table structure and inserting data. By downloading and executing these statements in the IoTDB CLI, you can import data into IoTDB. You can use this data to test and execute the SQL statements in the examples and obtain the corresponding results.

####  Example 1: Select a row with a specific ID

```sql
SELECT * FROM table1 WHERE plant_id = '1001';
```

The execution result is as follows:

```sql
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|                         time|region|plant_id|device_id|model_id|maintenance|temperature|humidity|status|                   modifytime|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|2024-11-26T13:37:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      100|       A|        180|       90.0|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T13:37:34.000+08:00|
|2024-11-26T13:38:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      100|       A|        180|       90.0|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T13:38:25.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:38:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T16:37:01.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:39:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    35.3|  null|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:40:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-26T16:37:03.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:41:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-26T16:37:04.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:42:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    35.2| false|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:43:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    null| false|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:44:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    null| false|2024-11-26T16:37:08.000+08:00|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
Total line number = 9
It costs 0.091s
```

#### Example 2: Choose to use LIKE expression for matching

```sql
SELECT * FROM table1 WHERE plant_id LIKE '300%';
```

The execution result is as follows:

```sql
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|                         time|region|plant_id|device_id|model_id|maintenance|temperature|humidity|status|                   modifytime|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|2024-11-29T11:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3002|      100|       E|        180|       null|    45.1|  true|                         null|
|2024-11-29T18:30:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3002|      100|       E|        180|       90.0|    35.4|  true|2024-11-29T18:30:15.000+08:00|
|2024-11-28T08:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      100|       C|         90|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-28T08:00:09.000+08:00|
|2024-11-28T09:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      100|       C|         90|       null|    40.9|  true|                         null|
|2024-11-28T10:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      100|       C|         90|       85.0|    35.2|  null|2024-11-28T10:00:11.000+08:00|
|2024-11-28T11:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      100|       C|         90|       88.0|    45.1|  true|2024-11-28T11:00:12.000+08:00|
|2024-11-30T09:30:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3002|      101|       F|        360|       90.0|    35.2|  true|                         null|
|2024-11-30T14:30:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3002|      101|       F|        360|       90.0|    34.8|  true|2024-11-30T14:30:17.000+08:00|
|2024-11-29T10:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      101|       D|        360|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-29T10:00:13.000+08:00|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
Total line number = 9
It costs 0.261s
```

#### Example 3: Choose to use composite expression filtering

```sql
SELECT * FROM table1 WHERE time >= 2024-11-28 00:00:00 and (plant_id = '3001' OR plant_id = '3002');
```

The execution result is as follows:

```sql
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|                         time|region|plant_id|device_id|model_id|maintenance|temperature|humidity|status|                   modifytime|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|2024-11-26T13:37:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      100|       A|        180|       90.0|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T13:37:34.000+08:00|
|2024-11-26T13:38:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      100|       A|        180|       90.0|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T13:38:25.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:38:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T16:37:01.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:39:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    35.3|  null|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:40:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-26T16:37:03.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:41:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-26T16:37:04.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:42:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    35.2| false|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:43:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    null| false|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:44:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    null| false|2024-11-26T16:37:08.000+08:00|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
Total line number = 9
It costs 0.091s
```

Commit message:

Table model data query and data deletion in English (#569)

src/UserGuide/Master/Table/SQL-Manual/Where-Clause.md, after:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
    
        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    
    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

# WHERE Clauses

## 1 Syntax Overview

```sql
WHERE booleanExpression
```

The `WHERE` clause is used to specify filter conditions in an SQL query. It is executed immediately after the `FROM` clause.

## 2 Example Data

The [Example Data page](../Reference/Sample-Data.md)page provides SQL statements to construct table schemas and insert data. By downloading and executing these statements in the IoTDB CLI, you can import the data into IoTDB. This data can be used to test and run the example SQL queries included in this documentation, allowing you to reproduce the described results.


####  Example 1: Selecting Rows with a Specific ID

```sql
SELECT * FROM table1 WHERE plant_id = '1001';
```

Results:

```sql
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|                         time|region|plant_id|device_id|model_id|maintenance|temperature|humidity|status|                   modifytime|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|2024-11-26T13:37:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      100|       A|        180|       90.0|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T13:37:34.000+08:00|
|2024-11-26T13:38:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      100|       A|        180|       90.0|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T13:38:25.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:38:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T16:37:01.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:39:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    35.3|  null|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:40:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-26T16:37:03.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:41:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-26T16:37:04.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:42:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    35.2| false|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:43:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    null| false|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:44:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    null| false|2024-11-26T16:37:08.000+08:00|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
Total line number = 9
It costs 0.091s
```

#### Example 2: Using the `LIKE` Expression for Matching

```sql
SELECT * FROM table1 WHERE plant_id LIKE '300%';
```

Results:

```sql
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|                         time|region|plant_id|device_id|model_id|maintenance|temperature|humidity|status|                   modifytime|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|2024-11-29T11:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3002|      100|       E|        180|       null|    45.1|  true|                         null|
|2024-11-29T18:30:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3002|      100|       E|        180|       90.0|    35.4|  true|2024-11-29T18:30:15.000+08:00|
|2024-11-28T08:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      100|       C|         90|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-28T08:00:09.000+08:00|
|2024-11-28T09:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      100|       C|         90|       null|    40.9|  true|                         null|
|2024-11-28T10:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      100|       C|         90|       85.0|    35.2|  null|2024-11-28T10:00:11.000+08:00|
|2024-11-28T11:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      100|       C|         90|       88.0|    45.1|  true|2024-11-28T11:00:12.000+08:00|
|2024-11-30T09:30:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3002|      101|       F|        360|       90.0|    35.2|  true|                         null|
|2024-11-30T14:30:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3002|      101|       F|        360|       90.0|    34.8|  true|2024-11-30T14:30:17.000+08:00|
|2024-11-29T10:00:00.000+08:00|  上海|    3001|      101|       D|        360|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-29T10:00:13.000+08:00|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
Total line number = 9
It costs 0.261s
```

#### Example 3: Filtering with a Compound Expression

```sql
SELECT * FROM table1 WHERE time >= 2024-11-28 00:00:00 and (plant_id = '3001' OR plant_id = '3002');
```

Results:

```sql
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|                         time|region|plant_id|device_id|model_id|maintenance|temperature|humidity|status|                   modifytime|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
|2024-11-26T13:37:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      100|       A|        180|       90.0|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T13:37:34.000+08:00|
|2024-11-26T13:38:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      100|       A|        180|       90.0|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T13:38:25.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:38:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    35.1|  true|2024-11-26T16:37:01.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:39:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    35.3|  null|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:40:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-26T16:37:03.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:41:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       85.0|    null|  null|2024-11-26T16:37:04.000+08:00|
|2024-11-27T16:42:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    35.2| false|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:43:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    null| false|                         null|
|2024-11-27T16:44:00.000+08:00|  北京|    1001|      101|       B|        180|       null|    null| false|2024-11-26T16:37:08.000+08:00|
+-----------------------------+------+--------+---------+--------+-----------+-----------+--------+------+-----------------------------+
Total line number = 9
It costs 0.091s
```
