src/UserGuide/Master/Deployment-and-Maintenance/workbench-deployment.md, before:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
    
        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    
    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->
# Workbench Deployment

The visualization console is one of the supporting tools for IoTDB. It is an official application tool system used in various stages of database deployment, operation and maintenance management, and application development, making the use, operation and management of databases simpler and more efficient, truly achieving low-cost management and operation of databases. This document will help you install Workbench.

 <div style="display: flex;justify-content: space-between;">                
   <img src="https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/%E9%A6%96%E9%A1%B5.PNG" alt=" " style="width: 50%;"/>
   <img src="https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en-bxzk.png" alt=" " style="width: 50%;"/>     
</div>


## Installation Preparation

|   Preparation Content    |            Name             |                     Version Requirements                     |                             Link                             |
| :----------------------: | :-------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
|     Operating System     |      Windows or Linux       |                              -                               |                              -                               |
| Installation Environment |             JDK             | Need>=V1.8.0_162 (recommended to use 11 or 17, please choose ARM or x64 installation package according to machine configuration when downloading) |     https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/      |
|     Related Software     |         Prometheus          |         Requires installation of V2.30.3 and above.          |               https://prometheus.io/download/                |
|         Database         |            IoTDB            |         Requires V1.2.0 Enterprise Edition and above         |   You can contact business or technical support to obtain    |
|         Console          | IoTDB-Workbench-`<version>` |                              -                               | You can choose according to the appendix version comparison table and contact business or technical support to obtain it |

## Installation Steps

### Step 1: IoTDB enables monitoring indicator collection

1. Open the monitoring configuration item. The configuration items related to monitoring in IoTDB are disabled by default. Before deploying the monitoring panel, you need to open the relevant configuration items (note that the service needs to be restarted after enabling monitoring configuration).

    <table>
        <tr>
                <th>Configuration</th>
                <th>Located in the configuration file</th>        
                <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>cn_metric_reporter_list</td>   
                <td rowspan="3">conf/iotdb-system.properties</td> 
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to PROMETHEUS</td> 
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>cn_metric_level</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to IMPORTANT</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>cn_metric_prometheus_reporter_port</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item to maintain the default setting of 9091. If other ports are set, they will not conflict with each other</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>dn_metric_reporter_list</td>   
                <td rowspan="4">conf/iotdb-system.properties</td> 
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to PROMETHEUS</td> 
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>dn_metric_level</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to IMPORTANT</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>dn_metric_prometheus_reporter_port</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set it to 9092 by default. If other ports are set, they will not conflict with each other</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>dn_metric_internal_reporter_type</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to IOTDB</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>enable_audit_log</td>   
                <td rowspan="3">conf/iotdb-system.properties</td> 
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to true</td> 
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>audit_log_storage</td>   
                <td>Uncomment configuration items</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>audit_log_operation</td>   
                <td>Uncomment configuration items</td> 
        </tr>
    </table>


2. Restart all nodes. After modifying the monitoring indicator configuration of three nodes, the confignode and datanode services of all nodes can be restarted:

    ```shell
    ./sbin/stop-standalone.sh      #Stop confignode and datanode first
    ./sbin/start-confignode.sh  -d #Start confignode
    ./sbin/start-datanode.sh  -d   #Start datanode 
    ```

3. After restarting, confirm the running status of each node through the client. If the status is Running, it indicates successful configuration:

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/%E5%90%AF%E5%8A%A8.PNG)

### Step 2: Install and configure Prometheus

1. Download the Prometheus installation package, which requires installation of V2.30.3 and above. You can go to the Prometheus official website to download it (https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps/)
2. Unzip the installation package and enter the unzipped folder:

    ```Shell
    tar xvfz prometheus-*.tar.gz
    cd prometheus-*
    ```

3.  Modify the configuration. Modify the configuration file prometheus.yml as follows
    1.  Add configNode task to collect monitoring data for ConfigNode
    2.  Add a datanode task to collect monitoring data for DataNodes

    ```shell
    global:
    scrape_interval: 15s 
    evaluation_interval: 15s 
    scrape_configs:
    - job_name: "prometheus"
        static_configs:
        - targets: ["localhost:9090"]
    - job_name: "confignode"
        static_configs:
        - targets: ["iotdb-1:9091","iotdb-2:9091","iotdb-3:9091"]
        honor_labels: true
    - job_name: "datanode"
        static_configs:
        - targets: ["iotdb-1:9092","iotdb-2:9092","iotdb-3:9092"]
        honor_labels: true
    ```

4. Start Prometheus. The default expiration time for Prometheus monitoring data is 15 days. In production environments, it is recommended to adjust it to 180 days or more to track historical monitoring data for a longer period of time. The startup command is as follows:

    ```Shell
    ./prometheus --config.file=prometheus.yml --storage.tsdb.retention.time=180d
    ```

5. Confirm successful startup. Enter in browser http://IP:port Go to Prometheus and click on the Target interface under Status. When you see that all States are Up, it indicates successful configuration and connectivity.

 <div style="display: flex;justify-content: space-between;">
      <img src="https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/%E5%90%AF%E5%8A%A8_1.png" alt=""  style="width: 50%;"  /> 
      <img src="https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/%E5%90%AF%E5%8A%A8_2.png" alt="" style="width: 48%;"/>
    </div>


### Step 3: Install Workbench

#### Windows：

1. Enter the config directory of iotdb Workbench -`<version>`

2. Modify Workbench configuration file: Go to the `config` folder and modify the configuration file `application-prod.properties`. If you are installing it locally, there is no need to modify it. If you are deploying it on a server, you need to modify the IP address

   | Configuration    | Before Modification                 | After modification                              |
   | ---------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
   | pipe.callbackUrl | pipe.callbackUrl=`http://127.0.0.1` | pipe.callbackUrl=`http://<Workbench's IP address>` |

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/windows.png)

3. Startup program: Please execute the startup command in the sbin folder of IoTDB Workbench -`<version>`

    ```shell
    # Start Workbench in the background
    start.bat -d
    ```

4. You can use the `jps` command to check if the startup was successful, as shown in the figure:

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/windows-jps.png)

5. Verification successful: Open "http://Server IP: Port in configuration file" in the browser to access, for example:“ http://127.0.0.1:9190 ”When the login interface appears, it is considered successful

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en.png)

#### Linux：

1. Enter the IoTDB Workbench -`<version>` directory

2. Modify Workbench configuration: Go to the `config` folder and modify the configuration file `application-prod.properties`. If you are installing it locally, there is no need to modify it. If you are deploying it on a server, you need to modify the IP address

   | Configuration    | Before Modification                 | After modification                              |
   | ---------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
   | pipe.callbackUrl | pipe.callbackUrl=`http://127.0.0.1` | pipe.callbackUrl=`http://<Workbench's IP address>` |

   ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/linux.png)

3. Startup program: Please execute the startup command in the sbin folder of IoTDB Workbench -`<version>`

    ```shell
    # Start Workbench in the background
    ./start.sh -d
    ```

4. You can use the `jps` command to check if the startup was successful, as shown in the figure:

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/linux-jps.png)

5. Verification successful: Open "http://Server IP: Port in configuration file" in the browser to access, for example:"http://127.0.0.1:9190" When the login interface appears, it is considered successful

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en.png)

### Step 4: Configure Instance Information

1. Configure instance information: You only need to fill in the following information to connect to the instance

   ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en-1.jpeg)


    | Field Name      | Is It A Required Field | Field Meaning                                                | Default Value |
    | --------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------ |
    | Connection Type |   Yes                     | The content filled in for different connection types varies, and supports selecting "single machine, cluster, dual active" | -      |
    | Instance Name   | Yes                    | You can distinguish different instances based on their names, with a maximum input of 50 characters | -      |
    | Instance        | Yes                    | Fill in the database address (`dn_rpc_address` field in the `iotdb/conf/iotdb-system.properties` file) and port number (`dn_rpc_port` field). Note: For clusters and dual active devices, clicking the "+" button supports entering multiple instance information | -      |
    | Prometheus      | No                     | Fill in `http://<Prometheus IP address>:<Prometheus port number>/app/v1/query` to view some monitoring information on the homepage. We recommend that you configure and use it | -      |
    | Username        | Yes                    | Fill in the username for IoTDB, supporting input of 4 to 32 characters, including uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters (! @ # $% ^&* () _+-=) | root   |
    | Enter Password  | No                     | Fill in the password for IoTDB. To ensure the security of the database, we will not save the password. Please fill in the password yourself every time you connect to the instance or test | root   |

2. Test the accuracy of the information filled in: You can perform a connection test on the instance information by clicking the "Test" button

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en-2.png)

## Appendix: IoTDB and Workbench Version Comparison Table

| Workbench Version Number | Release Note                                                 | Supports IoTDB Versions   |
| :------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------: |
| V1.3.1       |New analysis methods have been added to the analysis function, and functions such as optimizing import templates have been optimized                                  |V1.3.2 and above versions  |
| V1.3.0       |                      Add database configuration function             |V1.3.2 and above versions  |
| V1.2.6                   | Optimize the permission control function of each module      | V1.3.1 and above versions |
| V1.2.5                   | The visualization function has added the concept of "commonly used templates", and all interface optimization and page caching functions have been supplemented | V1.3.0 and above versions |
| V1.2.4                   | The calculation function has added the "import and export" function, and the measurement point list has added the "time alignment" field | V1.2.2 and above versions |
| V1.2.3                   | New "activation details" and analysis functions added to the homepage | V1.2.2 and above versions |
| V1.2.2                   | Optimize the display content and other functions of "measurement point description" | V1.2.2 and above versions |
| V1.2.1                   | New "Monitoring Panel" added to the data synchronization interface to optimize Prometheus prompt information | V1.2.2 and above versions |
| V1.2.0                   | New Workbench version upgrade                                | V1.2.0 and above versions |

Commit message:

Modify the details of the workbench document (#371)

src/UserGuide/Master/Deployment-and-Maintenance/workbench-deployment.md, after:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
    
        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    
    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->
# Workbench Deployment

The visualization console is one of the supporting tools for IoTDB. It is an official application tool system used in various stages of database deployment, operation and maintenance management, and application development, making the use, operation and management of databases simpler and more efficient, truly achieving low-cost management and operation of databases. This document will help you install Workbench.

 <div style="display: flex;justify-content: space-between;">                
   <img src="https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en-pklh.png" alt=" " style="width: 50%;"/>
   <img src="https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en-bxzk.png" alt=" " style="width: 50%;"/>     
</div>


## Installation Preparation

|   Preparation Content    |            Name             |                     Version Requirements                     |                             Link                             |
| :----------------------: | :-------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
|     Operating System     |      Windows or Linux       |                              -                               |                              -                               |
| Installation Environment |             JDK             | Need>=V1.8.0_162 (recommended to use 11 or 17, please choose ARM or x64 installation package according to machine configuration when downloading) |     https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/      |
|     Related Software     |         Prometheus          |         Requires installation of V2.30.3 and above.          |               https://prometheus.io/download/                |
|         Database         |            IoTDB            |         Requires V1.2.0 Enterprise Edition and above         |   You can contact business or technical support to obtain    |
|         Console          | IoTDB-Workbench-`<version>` |                              -                               | You can choose according to the appendix version comparison table and contact business or technical support to obtain it |

## Installation Steps

### Step 1: IoTDB enables monitoring indicator collection

1. Open the monitoring configuration item. The configuration items related to monitoring in IoTDB are disabled by default. Before deploying the monitoring panel, you need to open the relevant configuration items (note that the service needs to be restarted after enabling monitoring configuration).

    <table>
        <tr>
                <th>Configuration</th>
                <th>Located in the configuration file</th>        
                <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>cn_metric_reporter_list</td>   
                <td rowspan="3">conf/iotdb-system.properties</td> 
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to PROMETHEUS</td> 
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>cn_metric_level</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to IMPORTANT</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>cn_metric_prometheus_reporter_port</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item to maintain the default setting of 9091. If other ports are set, they will not conflict with each other</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>dn_metric_reporter_list</td>   
                <td rowspan="4">conf/iotdb-system.properties</td> 
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to PROMETHEUS</td> 
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>dn_metric_level</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to IMPORTANT</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>dn_metric_prometheus_reporter_port</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set it to 9092 by default. If other ports are set, they will not conflict with each other</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>dn_metric_internal_reporter_type</td>   
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to IOTDB</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>enable_audit_log</td>   
                <td rowspan="3">conf/iotdb-system.properties</td> 
                <td>Uncomment the configuration item and set the value to true</td> 
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>audit_log_storage</td>   
                <td>Uncomment configuration items</td> 
        </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>audit_log_operation</td>   
                <td>Uncomment configuration items</td> 
        </tr>
    </table>


2. Restart all nodes. After modifying the monitoring indicator configuration of three nodes, the confignode and datanode services of all nodes can be restarted:

    ```shell
    ./sbin/stop-standalone.sh      #Stop confignode and datanode first
    ./sbin/start-confignode.sh  -d #Start confignode
    ./sbin/start-datanode.sh  -d   #Start datanode 
    ```

3. After restarting, confirm the running status of each node through the client. If the status is Running, it indicates successful configuration:

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/%E5%90%AF%E5%8A%A8.PNG)

### Step 2: Install and configure Prometheus

1. Download the Prometheus installation package, which requires installation of V2.30.3 and above. You can go to the Prometheus official website to download it (https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps/)
2. Unzip the installation package and enter the unzipped folder:

    ```Shell
    tar xvfz prometheus-*.tar.gz
    cd prometheus-*
    ```

3.  Modify the configuration. Modify the configuration file prometheus.yml as follows
    1.  Add configNode task to collect monitoring data for ConfigNode
    2.  Add a datanode task to collect monitoring data for DataNodes

    ```shell
    global:
    scrape_interval: 15s 
    evaluation_interval: 15s 
    scrape_configs:
    - job_name: "prometheus"
        static_configs:
        - targets: ["localhost:9090"]
    - job_name: "confignode"
        static_configs:
        - targets: ["iotdb-1:9091","iotdb-2:9091","iotdb-3:9091"]
        honor_labels: true
    - job_name: "datanode"
        static_configs:
        - targets: ["iotdb-1:9092","iotdb-2:9092","iotdb-3:9092"]
        honor_labels: true
    ```

4. Start Prometheus. The default expiration time for Prometheus monitoring data is 15 days. In production environments, it is recommended to adjust it to 180 days or more to track historical monitoring data for a longer period of time. The startup command is as follows:

    ```Shell
    ./prometheus --config.file=prometheus.yml --storage.tsdb.retention.time=180d
    ```

5. Confirm successful startup. Enter in browser http://IP:port Go to Prometheus and click on the Target interface under Status. When you see that all States are Up, it indicates successful configuration and connectivity.

 <div style="display: flex;justify-content: space-between;">
      <img src="https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/%E5%90%AF%E5%8A%A8_1.png" alt=""  style="width: 50%;"  /> 
      <img src="https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/%E5%90%AF%E5%8A%A8_2.png" alt="" style="width: 48%;"/>
    </div>


### Step 3: Install Workbench

#### Windows：

1. Enter the config directory of iotdb Workbench -`<version>`

2. Modify Workbench configuration file: Go to the `config` folder and modify the configuration file `application-prod.properties`. If you are installing it locally, there is no need to modify it. If you are deploying it on a server, you need to modify the IP address
    > Workbench can be deployed on a local or cloud server as long as it can connect to IoTDB

   | Configuration    | Before Modification                 | After modification                              |
   | ---------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
   | pipe.callbackUrl | pipe.callbackUrl=`http://127.0.0.1` | pipe.callbackUrl=`http://<Workbench's IP address>` |

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-conf-1.png)

3. Startup program: Please execute the startup command in the sbin folder of IoTDB Workbench -`<version>`

    ```shell
    # Start Workbench in the background
    start.bat -d
    ```

4. You can use the `jps` command to check if the startup was successful, as shown in the figure:

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/windows-jps.png)

5. Verification successful: Open "`http://Server IP: Port in configuration file`" in the browser to access, for example:"`http://127.0.0.1:9190`" When the login interface appears, it is considered successful

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en.png)

#### Linux：

1. Enter the IoTDB Workbench -`<version>` directory

2. Modify Workbench configuration: Go to the `config` folder and modify the configuration file `application-prod.properties`. If you are installing it locally, there is no need to modify it. If you are deploying it on a server, you need to modify the IP address
    > Workbench can be deployed on a local or cloud server as long as it can connect to IoTDB

   | Configuration    | Before Modification                 | After modification                              |
   | ---------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
   | pipe.callbackUrl | pipe.callbackUrl=`http://127.0.0.1` | pipe.callbackUrl=`http://<Workbench's IP address>` |

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-conf-1.png)

3. Startup program: Please execute the startup command in the sbin folder of IoTDB Workbench -`<version>`

    ```shell
    # Start Workbench in the background
    ./start.sh -d
    ```

4. You can use the `jps` command to check if the startup was successful, as shown in the figure:

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/linux-jps.png)

5. Verification successful: Open "`http://Server IP: Port in configuration file`" in the browser to access, for example:"`http://127.0.0.1:9190`" When the login interface appears, it is considered successful

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en.png)

### Step 4: Configure Instance Information

1. Configure instance information: You only need to fill in the following information to connect to the instance

   ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en-1.jpeg)


    | Field Name      | Is It A Required Field | Field Meaning                                                | Default Value |
    | --------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------ |
    | Connection Type |   Yes                     | The content filled in for different connection types varies, and supports selecting "single machine, cluster, dual active" | -      |
    | Instance Name   | Yes                    | You can distinguish different instances based on their names, with a maximum input of 50 characters | -      |
    | Instance        | Yes                    | Fill in the database address (`dn_rpc_address` field in the `iotdb/conf/iotdb-system.properties` file) and port number (`dn_rpc_port` field). Note: For clusters and dual active devices, clicking the "+" button supports entering multiple instance information | -      |
    | Prometheus      | No                     | Fill in `http://<Prometheus IP address>:<Prometheus port number>/app/v1/query` to view some monitoring information on the homepage. We recommend that you configure and use it | -      |
    | Username        | Yes                    | Fill in the username for IoTDB, supporting input of 4 to 32 characters, including uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters (! @ # $% ^&* () _+-=) | root   |
    | Enter Password  | No                     | Fill in the password for IoTDB. To ensure the security of the database, we will not save the password. Please fill in the password yourself every time you connect to the instance or test | root   |

2. Test the accuracy of the information filled in: You can perform a connection test on the instance information by clicking the "Test" button

    ![](https://alioss.timecho.com/docs/img/workbench-en-2.png)

## Appendix: IoTDB and Workbench Version Comparison Table

| Workbench Version Number | Release Note                                                 | Supports IoTDB Versions   |
| :------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------: |
| V1.4.0       | New tree model display and internationalization                  | V1.3.2 and above versions |
| V1.3.1       |New analysis methods have been added to the analysis function, and functions such as optimizing import templates have been optimized                                  |V1.3.2 and above versions  |
| V1.3.0       |                      Add database configuration function             |V1.3.2 and above versions  |
| V1.2.6                   | Optimize the permission control function of each module      | V1.3.1 and above versions |
| V1.2.5                   | The visualization function has added the concept of "commonly used templates", and all interface optimization and page caching functions have been supplemented | V1.3.0 and above versions |
| V1.2.4                   | The calculation function has added the "import and export" function, and the measurement point list has added the "time alignment" field | V1.2.2 and above versions |
| V1.2.3                   | New "activation details" and analysis functions added to the homepage | V1.2.2 and above versions |
| V1.2.2                   | Optimize the display content and other functions of "measurement point description" | V1.2.2 and above versions |
| V1.2.1                   | New "Monitoring Panel" added to the data synchronization interface to optimize Prometheus prompt information | V1.2.2 and above versions |
| V1.2.0                   | New Workbench version upgrade                                | V1.2.0 and above versions |
